Source Detection and Extraction
===============================


Introduction
------------

One generally needs to identify astronomical sources in their data
before they can perform photometry or morphological measurements.
This procedure is referred to as source detection or source
extraction.  Photutils provides two functions designed specifically to
detect point-like (stellar) sources in an astronomical image.
Photutils also provides a general-use function to detect sources (both
point-like and extended) in an image using a process called `image
segmentation`_ in the `computer vision
<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computer_vision>`_ field.


Detecting Stars
---------------

Photutils includes two widely-used tools that are used to detect stars
in an image, `DAOFIND`_ and IRAF's `starfind`_.

`~photutils.daofind` is an implementation of the `DAOFIND`_ algorithm
(`Stetson 1987, PASP 99, 191
<http://adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/1987PASP...99..191S>`_).  It searches
images for local density maxima that have a peak amplitude greater
than a specified threshold (the threshold is applied to a convolved
image) and have a size and shape similar to a defined 2D Gaussian
kernel.  `~photutils.daofind` also provides an estimate of the
objects' roundness and sharpness, whose lower and upper bounds can be
specified.

`~photutils.irafstarfind` is an implementation of IRAF's `starfind`_
algorithm.  It is similar to `~photutils.daofind`, but it always uses
a 2D circular Gaussian kernel, while `~photutils.daofind` can use an
elliptical Gaussian kernel.  `~photutils.irafstarfind` is also
different in that it calculates the objects' centroid, roundness, and
sharpness using image moments.

As an example, let's load an image from the bundled datasets and
select a subset of the image.  We will estimate the background and
background noise using sigma-clipped statistics::

    >>> from photutils import datasets
    >>> from photutils.extern.imageutils.stats import sigma_clipped_stats
    >>> hdu = datasets.load_star_image()    # doctest: +REMOTE_DATA
    >>> data = hdu.data[0:400, 0:400]    # doctest: +REMOTE_DATA
    >>> mean, median, std = sigma_clipped_stats(data, sigma=3.0)    # doctest: +REMOTE_DATA
    >>> print(mean, median, std)    # doctest: +REMOTE_DATA
    (3667.4515318501185, 3649.0, 203.81136059770844)

Now we will subtract the background and use :func:`~photutils.daofind`
to find the stars in the image that have FWHMs of around 3 pixels and
have peaks approximately 5-sigma above the background:

.. doctest-requires:: scipy, skimage

    >>> from photutils import daofind
    >>> sources = daofind(data - median, fwhm=3.0, threshold=5.*std)    # doctest: +REMOTE_DATA
    >>> print(sources)    # doctest: +REMOTE_DATA
     id   xcentroid     ycentroid   ...  peak       flux           mag
    --- ------------- ------------- ... ------ ------------- ----------------
      1 144.247567164 6.37979042704 ... 6903.0 5.71451872131   -1.89244914961
      2 208.669068628 6.82058053777 ... 7896.0 6.73850099891   -2.07140824271
      3 216.926136655  6.5775933198 ... 2195.0 1.67120235604  -0.557572598088
      4 351.625190383  8.5459013233 ... 6977.0 5.91447184003   -1.92978992093
      5 377.519909958 12.0655009987 ... 1260.0  1.1211298456  -0.124139785194
    ...           ...           ... ...    ...           ...              ...
    281 268.049236979 397.925371446 ... 9299.0 6.23450523045   -1.98700498407
    282 268.475068392 398.020998272 ... 8754.0 6.06468200209   -1.95702008458
    283  299.80943822 398.027911813 ... 8890.0 6.13258007484   -1.96910806905
    284 315.689448343  398.70251891 ... 6485.0 5.56746265532   -1.86414328153
    285 360.437243037 398.698539555 ... 8079.0 5.27758085314   -1.80608723868

Let's plot the image and mark the location of detected sources:

.. doctest-skip::

    >>> from photutils import CircularAperture
    >>> from photutils.extern.imageutils.visualization import SqrtStretch
    >>> from photutils.extern.imageutils.visualization.mpl_normalize import ImageNormalize
    >>> import matplotlib.pylab as plt
    >>> positions = (sources['xcentroid'], sources['ycentroid'])
    >>> apertures = CircularAperture(positions, r=4.)
    >>> norm = ImageNormalize(stretch=SqrtStretch())
    >>> plt.imshow(data, cmap='Greys', origin='lower', norm=norm)
    >>> apertures.plot(color='blue', lw=1.5, alpha=0.5)

.. plot::

    from photutils.extern.imageutils.stats import sigma_clipped_stats
    from photutils import datasets, daofind, CircularAperture
    from photutils.extern.imageutils.visualization import SqrtStretch
    from photutils.extern.imageutils.visualization.mpl_normalize import ImageNormalize
    import matplotlib.pylab as plt
    hdu = datasets.load_star_image()
    data = hdu.data[0:400, 0:400]
    mean, median, std = sigma_clipped_stats(data, sigma=3.0)
    sources = daofind(data - median, fwhm=3.0, threshold=5.*std)
    positions = (sources['xcentroid'], sources['ycentroid'])
    apertures = CircularAperture(positions, r=4.)
    norm = ImageNormalize(stretch=SqrtStretch())
    plt.imshow(data, cmap='Greys', origin='lower', norm=norm)
    apertures.plot(color='blue', lw=1.5, alpha=0.5)


.. _source_extraction:

Source Extraction Using Image Segmentation
------------------------------------------

Photutils also provides tools to detect astronomical sources using
`image segmentation`_, which is a process of assigning a label to
every pixel in an image such that pixels with the same label are part
of the same source.  The segmentation procedure implemented in
photutils is called the threshold method, where detected sources must
have a minimum number of connected pixels that are each greater than a
specified threshold value in an image.  The threshold is usually
defined at some multiple of the background standard deviation (sigma)
above the background.  The image can also be filtered before
thresholding to smooth the noise and maximize the detectability of
objects with a shape similar to the filter kernel.

In photutils, source extraction is performed using the
:func:`~photutils.detection.detect_sources` function.  The
:func:`~photutils.detection.detect_threshold` tool is a convenience
function to generate a 2D detection threshold image using simple
sigma-clipped statistics to estimate the background and background
rms.

For this example, let's detect sources in a synthetic image provided
by the `datasets <datasets.html>`_ module::

    >>> from photutils.datasets import make_100gaussians_image
    >>> data = make_100gaussians_image()

We will use `~photutils.detection.detect_threshold` to produce a
detection threshold image.  `~photutils.detection.detect_threshold`
will estimate the background and background rms using sigma-clipped
statistics if they are not input.  The threshold level is calculated
using the ``snr`` input as the sigma level above the background.  Here
we generate a simple pixel-wise threshold at 3 sigma above the
background::

    >>> from photutils import detect_threshold
    >>> threshold = detect_threshold(data, snr=3.)

For more sophisticated analyses, one should generate a 2D background
and background-only error image (e.g., from your data reduction or by
using `~photutils.background.Background`).  In that case, a 3-sigma
threshold image is simply::

    >>> threshold = bkg + (3.0 * bkg_rms)    # doctest: +SKIP

Note that if the threshold includes the background level (as above),
then the image input into `~photutils.detection.detect_sources` should
*not* be background subtracted.

Let's find sources that have 5 connected pixels that are each greater
than the corresponding pixel-wise ``threshold`` level defined above.
Because the threshold returned by
`~photutils.detection.detect_threshold` includes the background, we do
not subtract the background from the data here.  We will also input a
2D circular Gaussian kernel with a FWHM of 2 pixels to filter the
image prior to thresholding:

.. doctest-requires:: scipy

    >>> from astropy.convolution import Gaussian2DKernel
    >>> from photutils import detect_sources
    >>> from photutils.extern.stats import gaussian_fwhm_to_sigma
    >>> sigma = 2.0 * gaussian_fwhm_to_sigma    # FWHM = 2.
    >>> kernel = Gaussian2DKernel(sigma, x_size=3, y_size=3)
    >>> segm = detect_sources(data, threshold, npixels=5, filter_kernel=kernel)

The result is a 2D segmentation image (or sometimes called a "labeled"
image) with the same shape as the data, where sources are labeled by
different positive integer values.  A value of zero is always reserved
for the background.  Let's plot both the image and the segmentation
image showing the detected sources:

.. doctest-skip::

    >>> from photutils.extern.imageutils.visualization import SqrtStretch
    >>> from photutils.extern.imageutils.visualization.mpl_normalize import ImageNormalize
    >>> import matplotlib.pylab as plt
    >>> norm = ImageNormalize(stretch=SqrtStretch())
    >>> fig, (ax1, ax2) = plt.subplots(2, 1, figsize=(8, 8))
    >>> ax1.imshow(data, origin='lower', cmap='Greys_r', norm=norm)
    >>> ax2.imshow(segm, origin='lower', cmap='jet')

.. plot::

    from photutils.datasets import make_100gaussians_image
    from photutils import detect_threshold, detect_sources
    from photutils.extern.stats import gaussian_fwhm_to_sigma
    from astropy.convolution import Gaussian2DKernel
    from photutils.extern.imageutils.visualization import SqrtStretch
    from photutils.extern.imageutils.visualization.mpl_normalize import ImageNormalize
    import matplotlib.pylab as plt
    data = make_100gaussians_image()
    threshold = detect_threshold(data, snr=3.)
    sigma = 2.0 * gaussian_fwhm_to_sigma    # FWHM = 2.
    kernel = Gaussian2DKernel(sigma, x_size=3, y_size=3)
    segm = detect_sources(data, threshold, npixels=5, filter_kernel=kernel)
    norm = ImageNormalize(stretch=SqrtStretch())
    fig, (ax1, ax2) = plt.subplots(2, 1, figsize=(8, 8))
    ax1.imshow(data, origin='lower', cmap='Greys_r', norm=norm)
    ax2.imshow(segm, origin='lower', cmap='jet')


When the segmentation image is generated using image thresholding
(e.g., using `~photutils.detect_sources`), the source segments
effectively represent the isophotal footprint of each source.

Note that overlapping sources are detected as single sources.
Separating those sources requires a deblending procedure, such as a
multi-thresholding technique used by `SExtractor
<http://www.astromatic.net/software/sextractor>`_.  Photutils does not
yet provide a tool to deblend overlapping sources, but it will likely
incorporate elements of `sep`_, which uses the SExtractor deblending
algorithm.  In the meantime, `sep`_ can be used to deblend sources.

To calculate the centroids, photometry, and morphological properties
of sources from a segmentation map, please see `Segmentation
Photometry and Properties <segmentation.html>`_.


Local Peak Detection
--------------------

Photutils also includes a :func:`~photutils.detection.find_peaks`
function to find local peaks in an image that are above a specified
threshold value.  Peaks are the local maxima above a specified
threshold that separated by a a specified minimum number of pixels.
The return pixel coordinates are always integer (i.e., no centroiding
is performed, only the peak pixel is identified).
`~photutils.detection.find_peaks` also supports a number of options,
including searching for peaks only within a segmentation image or a
specified footprint.  Please see the `~photutils.detection.find_peaks`
documentation for more options.

As simple example, let's find the local peaks in an image that are 10
sigma above the background and a separated by a least 2 pixels:

.. doctest-requires:: skimage

    >>> from photutils.datasets import make_100gaussians_image
    >>> from photutils import find_peaks
    >>> from photutils.extern.imageutils.stats import sigma_clipped_stats
    >>> data = make_100gaussians_image()
    >>> mean, median, std = sigma_clipped_stats(data, sigma=3.0)
    >>> threshold = median + (10.0 * std)
    >>> peaks = find_peaks(data, threshold, min_separation=2)

And let's plot the location of the detected peaks in the image:

.. doctest-skip::

    >>> from photutils.extern.imageutils.visualization import SqrtStretch
    >>> from photutils.extern.imageutils.visualization.mpl_normalize import ImageNormalize
    >>> import matplotlib.pylab as plt
    >>> norm = ImageNormalize(stretch=SqrtStretch())
    >>> plt.imshow(data, cmap='Greys_r', origin='lower', norm=norm)
    >>> plt.plot(peaks.T[1], peaks.T[0], ls='none', color='cyan', marker='+',
    ...          ms=10, lw=1.5)
    >>> plt.xlim(0, data.shape[1]-1)
    >>> plt.ylim(0, data.shape[0]-1)

.. plot::

    from photutils.datasets import make_100gaussians_image
    from photutils import find_peaks
    from photutils.extern.imageutils.stats import sigma_clipped_stats
    data = make_100gaussians_image()
    mean, median, std = sigma_clipped_stats(data, sigma=3.0)
    threshold = median + (10.0 * std)
    peaks = find_peaks(data, threshold, min_separation=2)

    from photutils.extern.imageutils.visualization import SqrtStretch
    from photutils.extern.imageutils.visualization.mpl_normalize import ImageNormalize
    import matplotlib.pylab as plt
    norm = ImageNormalize(stretch=SqrtStretch())
    plt.imshow(data, cmap='Greys_r', origin='lower', norm=norm)
    plt.plot(peaks.T[1], peaks.T[0], ls='none', color='cyan', marker='+',
             ms=10, lw=1.5)
    plt.xlim(0, data.shape[1]-1)
    plt.ylim(0, data.shape[0]-1)


Reference/API
-------------

.. automodapi:: photutils.detection
    :no-heading:


.. _DAOFIND: http://stsdas.stsci.edu/cgi-bin/gethelp.cgi?daofind
.. _starfind: http://stsdas.stsci.edu/cgi-bin/gethelp.cgi?starfind
.. _image segmentation: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Image_segmentation
.. _sep: https://github.com/kbarbary/sep
